Caching is a process of storing frequently accessed data in a location from where it can be accessed quickly. The purpose of caching is to improve the performance and efficiency of a system by reducing the amount of time it takes to access frequently accessed data. General working of cache:

1. The first time user sends a request, the cache is checked - no data is available (cache miss) - the data is fetched from the main database and then loaded into the cache and finally returned to the user.
2. Next time onwards, if we get the same request, the data is now present in cache(cache hit) so it is returned directly from cache thus reducing response time.

Challenges of cache:

1. The whole database cannot be stored in cache since cache memory is expensive (as it is usually stored in RAM) and loading all data in cache is not feasible.
2. Cache is volatile. If the system crashes or reboots then all cache data will be lost. 
3. Depending on the system, the cache may take a little time to update in case there is a db update - resulting in stale data from cache.

Types of cache:

1. Application server cache - An Application Server Cache is a storage layer within an application server that temporarily holds frequently accessed data.
2. Distributed cache  - There are multiple nodes that contain a part of  the main cache space. To identify which node has which request, the cache is divided using a consistent hashing function so that the request can be routed properly. 
3. Global cache - There is a single cache space and all the nodes use this cache space.
4. CDN - It is a group of servers that are placed across the globe with the purpose of accelerating the delivery of web content. A CDN:
    - Manages servers that are geographically distributed over different locations.
    - Stores the web content in its servers.
    - Attempts to direct each user to a server that is part of the CDN and close to the user so as to deliver content quickly.

Cache invalidation strategies:

Cache needs to be invalidated in case of db update so that users are not served stale data. In order to do so, many systems apply time based expiration, event-driven invalidation where invalidation is triggered in case of an update.

Eviction policies:

These are certain rules that determine how to remove existing cache if cache is full and new data is to be stored in cache. Some common policies are:

- The Least Recently Used (LRU) policy is a strategy that eliminates the item that has been accessed the least recently. According to this assumption, items which have been used recently are more likely to be utilized again shortly.
- Another method is the Least Frequently Used (LFU) policy, removing the least frequently accessed items.
- Alternatively, there's the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) policy, evicting the oldest cached item.